and it's natural for human human beings
to want to be liked by those that
surround them but if Washington likes
you as a republican attorney general
that means you're not representing a
threat to the current order of things so
part of what I look for is to find
people that understand there's going to
be blowback when they're doing the right
thing and are going to be happy to kind
of wear that as a badge of
honor
[Music]
I had the privilege of talking today to
Governor Ron de santis who's running for
president on the Republican slate um I
tried to tilt the discussion more
towards the personal my impression with
Governor Dan santis is that he's
established himself already as a
credible policy um uh advocate and a
credible administrator and that's no
small deal he and also as someone who's
willing and able to take the flock
associated with making difficult
political decisions but I had the sense
that I didn't really know him personally
and I believe that that's a sense that
shared by many people and so a lot of
what we did with the conversation today
was to get to know Governor DeSantis at
a personal level and so I hope that all
of you who are watching and listening
find that useful and interesting as I
did so Governor dentus we met um I think
it was probably more than a year ago at
the governor's mansion now we had bumped
into each other a couple of times at
some at some different speaking events
but never really had a chance to sit
down and talk and you know we we got to
know each other a little bit over
breakfast you know and I was I was
struck by how um welcoming the event was
and how conversational our discussion
became quite rapidly and you know I
thought I might walk down that road a
little bit farther today you've
established a good reputation or perhaps
a stellar reputation already on the
policy side and with regards to General
administrative competence but it's my
sense at least to some degree that
people don't know you as well as they
might and and so I thought we might and
that goes for me as well and so I
thought we might try to redress that
today so that's what I'm going to aim at
and we'll take foray off into the Phil
opical and political direction from that
but that's where we'll focus so the
first thing I'd like to know and to
share with everyone who's watching and
listening is where did you grow up what
was your what was your upbringing like
so I grew up most of my youth in in a in
a town called Duneden Florida which is
on the west coast of Florida in the
Tampa St Petersburg area I was actually
born in Jacksonville uh my mother was a
nurse my father worked for neelon TV
ratings which at that time you actually
had to in stall the neelen devices on
the boxes of the neelen families uh so
that was his job uh it took us from
Jacksonville to Orlando and then by the
time I was in first grade I ended up in
in Duneden Florida uh so my my folks
were just work workingclass folks my my
dad is from Western Pennsylvania his
father worked in the steel mills in
Alaqua and then my mom was from North
Eastern Ohio Youngstown uh which is
which is also very blue collar uh area
so so that was kind of how I was growing
up I was somebody that was very involved
in in baseball all the way through
college but certainly as a youth it was
something that I did pretty religiously
uh we were uh I went to church every
Sunday and then as I started to get
older I started working parttime jobs to
be able to to make ends meet so it was a
uh it was it was a good upbringing no
one would have predicted probably when I
showed up at first grade in Duneden
Florida that I would have gotten elected
governor of the state in in 30 years but
but uh it just shows you I think this
country uh still has a lot to offer even
though we've got a lot of problems uh I
was somebody that was able to to work
hard and and really get ahead from from
that place uh in West Central Florida
how big is the town you grew up in D
doen how do you pronounce that Duneden
you know at the time I would say was
probably about 30 30 some thousand it's
grown since then when I was a kid it was
a lot of strip malls now they've got a
nice downtown area a lot of restaurants
there's there's kind of a lot of life
for it so it's a it's a very cute little
place of course they do have Coast on
the Gulf of Mexico as well and one of
the things that we have uh is the
connection to Canada because dun Eden is
the spring training home of the Toronto
bluejs so growing up as a kid once it
got to spring training in February in
dun Eden you would see a lot of Ontario
license plates uh around because the
Baseball fans would come down Canadians
would come down and the blue Blue Jay's
facilities were all owned by the city of
dun Eden so as a kid growing up playing
baseball I we were we would use all the
Blue Jays stuff since it was owned by
the city my high school team our home
field was the spring training stadium
that the Toronto Blue Jays played in
when they were doing spring training in
dun Eden and so that was kind of a
unique thing to have but the connection
between dun Eden and the Toronto Blue
Jays was something that was a really big
deal for the city and really big deal
for a lot of us growing up at the time
yeah well Canadians are pretty fond of
Florida All Things Considered um it's a
great alternative to freezing to death
in the dark fundamentally and so now you
said something interesting when you were
talking about yourself in first grade
you said that no one would have
predicted for example that you might
grow up to become governor you came from
a workingclass background it's
relatively small town um but that but
that's a striking thing to say too what
were you like when you were little kid
do you think and and when did whatever
promise you did manifest start to show
itself well my my what drove me was was
the Athletics I mean uh primarily
baseball but but I I started to like all
sports as I as I got older and and that
was the thing that that we did so when
by the time I was 12 My Little League
team Duneden National made it to the
Little League World Series in
Williamsport Pennsylvania one of four
American teams in the entire country to
make it there they have a stadium and
everything it's it's kind of the big
time for Little League baseball and and
that put us on the map there we had a
great high school program when it came
time for me to get recruited for college
I was a good student and so I was
getting recruited by places including
Harvard Yale and Princeton so baseball
really took me and I had never been to
New England in my life uh so baseball is
really what brought me to New England
when I ended up going to Yale and I
would have done baseball uh for as long
as I as I could have and actually uh all
through college and I was the baseball
captain my senior year at Yale uh I
would have kind of I would have played
as long as I could but but being a big
league player is tough uh my I think
goal at that point was to stay in
baseball maybe more on the business side
in the front office but then when 911
happened that's when I ended up
commissioning in the Navy and I kind of
took a different course at that time but
growing up as a kid uh it was really
about playing sports and and doing that
and I had a lot of kids growing up with
me who were really involved in it we had
a lot of good programs particularly on
the baseball side so it was fun and I
didn't I kind of just took it for
granted but now that I've gotten older
and I've been AC been been around the
block a little bit you know not every
Community necessarily offers those
opportunities to the kids and so we were
really fortunate uh that we had a lot of
uh a lot of opportunities to play so
what position did you play on your
baseball team so I by the time I was in
high school and College I was an
outfielder uh in Little League I was one
of the three starting pitchers on our on
our World Series team uh and then I
would play u I'd play the infield when I
wasn't uh when I wasn't pitching but my
the one thing I could do uh is I could
hit a fast ball so you could throw a
fast ball 95 miles an hour I could hit
the fast ball as they started to be able
to throw like 86 87 mph sliders and
change ups that that makes it a little
bit more difficult but but I was a dead
red hitter if you thre me the heat uh I
could hit it so you look back on your
life when you were young especially on
the athletic side obviously with a fair
bit of appreciation you said you took it
for granted then so I have two questions
about that like what do you think it was
about you or was there something in
particular about you that made you an
effective team player because people who
are athletically successful have to be
skilled in the mechanics of the sport
obviously but to really reach a a
profound level of success you have to be
a good team player as well you have to
be someone who helps the other players
on your team develop and so forth and so
what and then I'm also curious on the
developmental side so I I'm wondering
what you brought to the team and also
what being engaged in those team
Enterprises for so long actually did for
you well baseball is an interesting
sport because it's both uh the team is
is Paramount I mean you can't it's not
an individual sport at all but at the
same time when you're up at the plate uh
you know that's just you no one can
swing the bat for you uh you either you
either hit the ball or you don't and so
it's an individual uh Enterprise in
terms of every time you get to the plate
four times a game or however much you do
uh you've got to make it happen but just
because you make it happen there's a
larger thing I mean you could be a great
hitter you need good pitching you need
defense you need all those things so
it's it's an interesting combination of
of individual achievement but really
needing to have the The Supporting Cast
and the teammates to be able to do it so
I did learn that at at a pretty pretty
early age and I do think kind of like my
job as an executive now I understand
that I can have the vision I can make
these great decisions But ultimately you
need a Supporting Cast around you who's
going to implement all this stuff uh you
can't just do it by yourself and so we
have people when you know we're fighting
some of the covid insanity I have a
Surgeon General Joseph lpo who uh
carries this out and and he's a leader
and all that stuff uh when we respond to
things like hurricanes yeah I can say
we're going to rebuild a bridge in three
days but I've got to have the agencies
that are going to be nimble and going to
be able to do it so I definitely think I
learned that and I think what I brought
was just uh I I was a a hard worker I
was somebody that that really wanted to
be out there a lot I enjoyed it I
enjoyed the camaraderie I enjoyed the
comp competition and I I remember
thinking when we when we went to the
World Series when I was 12 we pretty
much did baseball every single day in
the summer all the way through the World
Series and sometimes it was because you
know we practiced a lot as a team but
even if we didn't have practice a lot of
us would just be out there and we would
be playing on our own and I was always
one of those guys there I would be one
of the first to practice I'd be one of
the last to leave I just really enjoyed
it and I really enjoyed putting the work
in and I believe that when you put the
work in in a sport like baseball that
you do see the dividends and that's
something I've carried with me
throughout uh my life when you when you
work hard when you're prepared when you
know your stuff uh you're going to be
able to do better than if you're you're
just out there expecting things to
happen for you yeah well there's there's
two things I've noticed about political
leaders or cultural leaders for that
matter who are
genuine so you know politics media
entertainment surgery actually maybe
medicine as well in general tends to
attract a disproportionate number of
people who tilt towards narcissism and
people are born with uh with their trait
personality somewhat intact and every
different combination of personality
traits provides people with certain
advantages and certain disadvantages or
Temptations and if you're going to be on
the political landscape you have to be
extroverted generally speaking and one
of the things that extroversion
especially in combination with less
agreeableness tilts people towards is a
kind of narcissism and so there's a lot
of people in the political domain media
entertainment as I said who are in the
public eye who tilt towards narcissism
but the great leaders that I've seen are
people who are very good at
listening who are very good at building
teams and who might balance their
ambition with conscientiousness now it
seems to me very clear that you're a
conscientious person because you stress
hard work continually and you also say
that you enjoy it and those are
Hallmarks of someone who's conscientious
and that's a very good trait personality
predictor of long-term success it's the
best predictor after general
intelligence but the team building thing
really interests me because that's
something that's crucial the ability to
build a team and to provide opportunity
to people and to give them resp
responsibility instead of keeping
everything for yourself is definitely
one of the things that distinguishes
narcissistic people from genuine leaders
and so I've seen political leaders who
are confident enough to surround
themselves with people who are even more
competent than them right which which is
a which is a risk because if you shine
if you surround yourself with people
whose lights shine brighter than yours
at least at least under some
circumstances then that brings with it
the risk that you're going to seem
rather dim in comparison and so what I'm
I'm curious about the mechanics of how
you go about building a team how you've
done that in Florida and what you think
you might bring to bear if you were in
Washington I I read a fair bit about
Donald Trump's early year in first year
in in office and it was definitely the
case that it was hard for him to build a
functional team now I don't think he
really expected to become president you
know so a lot of that was thrown at him
or dumped on him although he obviously
put his hat in the ring but I'm very
curious about how you go about building
a team because
obviously building a team on the federal
level is an unbelievably difficult job
and if it's not done right then well all
hell's going to break loose yeah I mean
well first of all my my view is what
Ronald Reagan said there's no limit to
what we can accomplish if if you don't
care who gets the credit so I I'm not
out to get credit uh I think when you
deliver results uh I I I hope that the
other people get credit I don't need the
credit and in fact when things don't go
as well one of the things a leader has
to do is say okay I'm responsible for
that so there are there are times and
and and and I I I think you you can't be
a really good leader if you try to
micromanage anything I mean you've got
to set the vision set expectations and
you've got to give people the
opportunity to do it without you picking
at them and and that's the only way I
think you can really do well the flip
side to that though is that sometimes
when you delegate like that the the job
doesn't get done and people may do
things that that are not in line with
the vision and so what you just have to
be able to do is you just have to take
the necessary action to correct that
sometimes you got to replace Personnel
sometimes just uh internal course
correction but I think it's important
that you you praise the people that are
working for you in public and you censor
in private I don't believe
people I think they know that you're
going to have their back and that's part
of what we I think there's certain
things leadership generally and
particularly in government as an
executive and then I think there are
certain things that given the moment
that we're in uh coming at it from a
conservative perspective what does that
mean in terms of building a team because
I do think it's different uh how I would
build the team in Washington versus how
Biden or Obama or the left because when
you're going into place like DC uh the
hostility is there for anyone that wants
to be a change agent uh they don't want
to change the the order of things there
they've accumulated a lot of power
they're really invested in the status
quo so if you take an agency like the
Department of Justice uh and you want an
attorney general any Attorney General on
the conservative side that's going to go
in there and actually clean house
Washington is not going to like you uh
you are going to get hit by the media
you're going to get smeared by The
Washington Post and the New York Times
and so you just have to understand that
and what about your internal makeup uh
what is your internal makeup are you
somebody that realizes that's positive
feedback that you must be over the
Target or are you somebody that wants to
be liked by official Washington and it's
natural for human human beings to want
to be liked uh by those that surround
them but if Washington likes you as a
republican attorney general that means
you're not repres presenting a threat to
the current order of things so part of
what I look for is to find people that
understand there's going to be blowback
when they're doing the right thing and
are going to be happy to kind of wear
that as a badge of honor I mean I in Co
our our Surgeon General Dr Joseph lpo uh
he came from UCLA had a great tenure
great great life but he was a covid
Critic of the narrative and he got
marginalized there I brought him on to
Florida said listen you do what exactly
what you're doing but just understand
they're going to come at you are you
going to be able to handle it he's like
yep I get it and and his credit he wears
it as a badge of honor but if you're
willing if you're concerned about how
the media is going to treat you in some
of these key positions if that's
something that motivates you you're
going to trim your sales and you're not
going to get the job done so so I think
just understanding how the media plays a
role in distorting how our government
operates when you're building the team
you really got to have that intestinal
fortitude in those key
positions as the holiday season unfolds
it's a time of Joy gratitude and
reflection in the midst of all these
festivities consider taking a moment to
reflect on the digital footprint that
accompanies you through the season think
about all the information on your phone
from anything you search your location
to the websites you shop at and more
companies can legally gather this
information and sell your data for
profit that's why you need to do what I
do and keep your data private with
Express VPN n expressvpn is an app on
your phone and computer that encrypts
all of your online traffic so whatever
you do stays private if you think
incognito mode will stop people from
tracking your online activity think
again when you read the fine print that
appears when you start browsing in
incognito mode it says that your
activity might still be visible to your
employer your school or your internet
service provider without expressvpn
every site you visit could be logged by
the Admin of that Network we love using
expressvpn because of how easy it is to
use the app has one button once you turn
it on you're protected from prying eyes
the daily wire has partnered with
expressvpn to get you a special holiday
offer go to expressvpn.com Jordan right
now and get three extra months free go
to expressvpn.com Jordan right now and
get three extra months free that's
expressvpn.com Jordan expressvpn.com
Jordan to learn
more so how are you able to resist the
temptation to be liked and how do you
tolerate the stress that comes with the
attacks that are inevitably going to
amount some of them reasonable and some
of them not so reasonable I mean I've
thought about a political career from
time to time but I've always well I
haven't chosen to go down that route for
a variety of reasons it doesn't
necessarily seem to me where I would be
most effective but I also have a certain
doubt about my willingness or ability to
handle the
constant stream of attacks that
characterize a political career and so
I'm curious about how how those sorts of
attacks do affect you I mean one of the
Cardinal personality traits is
neuroticism and that's the proclivity to
experience negative emotion and it's a
stress tolerance Dimension and I'm not
exactly sure that I have the capacity to
tolerate stress in the matter that might
be delivered on the political front now
you've certainly taken your fair share
of heat and you said that you're trying
to surround yourself with people who are
capable of tolerating that and who are
also not necessarily looking to be liked
so how do you manage that on the
personal side of things and how do you
what would you say butress yourself and
and reinforce yourself you know say with
regard to your family relationships and
your friendships maybe your business
relationships for the for that matter so
that you have people around you that
help you withstand the
storm well part of it I think is that I
just personally don't really care to
read about me or or watch anyone on TV
even when it's good it's just not
something that I'm that I'm interested
I'm much more interested in other things
I don't need to be hearing about me I
mean people you know there are times
when I'll get something nice written
or'll be oh did you see this and this
and I'm like no I'm like I'm just not
I'm not fishing for for for compliments
either but I just know it goes with the
territory uh it's just something that
that you're going to do especially when
you take on certain sacred cows you can
just guarantee and you just see it for
example this is a relatively small
example but uh I I've been watching
what's going on in DC with the fed and
this whole idea of a central bank
digital currency I think that that's
very dangerous so I did a i i in Florida
this past year I said okay in Florida
we're not going to recognize that
because if the FED does it unilaterally
I don't even know if they have the
authority to do that and I started to
say well it'll violate your privacy they
want to get rid of cash crypto all this
stuff and and it was all true and then
literally within days Washington Post
New York Times all The Usual Suspects
they start having a spasm and they're
and they're going at me oh he's he's
pedaling conspiracy theories all this
stuff and I and and so I viewed that as
I must have hit a nerve they would not
all be doing this in unison this is
something that these guys want and so
I'm standing in the way so they're
coming after me so it's kind of like in
the m milary you take the most flak when
you're over the target they don't tend
to go after uh people on the right who
are not a threat to them if you're just
sitting there and taking up space they
kind of leave you alone it's only when
you're making a difference and you're
leading that they really care so so I
just know going in if you are going to
stand for the things that I think need
to be done in this state and throughout
the country you are going to face
blowback you just have to understand
that uh you got to have a thick skin and
I know it just goes with the territory
you know how some people are going to
react no matter what and that's just the
way it is so you don't let it get to you
uh I don't appreciate necessarily if
they um you know you know go after like
my wife or things like that but she's
very tough too and she's just like look
I get it I understand and she's very
effective on the campaign Trail so they
try to they try to Nick her as much as
they can but but that's just where we
are as a society the good news is is I
think most people get that I think most
of the attacks fall flat because they
understand this is just part of the
process and Florida we're show a good
example because as Governor I got
attacked more than any governor in the
country and yet I won the biggest
victory that any Republican has ever won
in the history of the state in a
Governor's race in 2022 so what that
tells me is there's a lot of garbage
that gets circulated out there but the
public knows a lot of what goes on in
the media is deceitful uh one way or
another and I do think when you're just
out there standing for and speaking the
truth I do think it permeates through
the fog of Deceit that our society has
become mired in right well it is
interesting reversal to view the most
vicious attacks as indications that
you're actually on the right track I
mean obviously that isn't an
unaringa take on the issue right instead
of being concerned about the fact that
you're drawing negative attention and
taking that personally you said that
you're using it as an indication that
you've actually struck to the core of
something that matters and that that's
actually a positive sign rather than
something that's negative so that's a
useful thing to have in your back pocket
so let me ask you a little bit let's go
back again to to to your to your early
life and I'm very curious always curious
in with regard to the people that I talk
to how their interests develop now you
stressed a fair bit you stressed your
athletic interests a fair bit and we
talked already about the influence that
had on the way that you conduct yourself
and and how you build teams but I'm
curious too when did your first of all
like would you say that your interests
are primary polit primarily political
and pragmatic or are they more
philosophical and and and metaphysical
with regards to your conservatism
because conservatives can be very
pragmatic and detail oriented but they
can also take a more philosophical Tack
and I'm curious about which side of that
you might Place yourself and then also
on where your intellectual and political
interests how did they first make
themselves manifest when you were a
young
person well I think it's interesting
because clearly when you're actually in
a position of executive Authority uh you
know you have to have a certain level of
pragmatism because there's different
things that come up and you've got to be
able to improvise with new situations uh
now you bring to that I think ideally a
solid philosophical Foundation that
you're able to to parse things through
but for me so when I got to college for
example I didn't even know colleges were
liberal at the time and and especially
like like a place like Yale I guess I
thought like in Ivy League school
everyone was going to be wearing like a
suit and tie and everything I thought it
was actually going to be more
conservative in terms of that well I got
there was a rude awakening uh you're in
the classroom a lot of aggressive
leftism so what I gravitated towards was
uh a real good good history Western
Civilization but I think with an
emphasis on the founding of America
because I think that there is a lot of
the western tradition that fed into what
the founding fathers did both during the
American Revolution and when they
created and ratified the US Constitution
so I started studying uh all those key
sources I became very well read in
things like The Federalist Papers uh I
read the Madison's diary about the
Constitutional Convention pamphlets
during the American Evolution so for me
in terms of developing a conservative
philosophy it really started in in those
you know really core philosophical
enduring truths that Mark the founding
of the United States of America and I
think that's something I developed
throughout College I joke to people and
say because when I'm speaking be in
front of conservative audiences the fact
that I graduated from Yale and Harvard
Law School is not necessarily a good
thing on its face given how liberal
those universities are but what I tell
people is I'm one of the few people that
got through both Yale and Harvard and
came out more conservative than when I
went in that's not easy to do but I
think part of it is because I was
gravitating towards things that I think
really really mattered I was not doing
ideological studies I wasn't doing some
of the flimflam that you see in modern
Academia uh I were I was doing things
that uh represented I was learning about
ideas that have really stood the test of
time what did you study specifically at
Yale what was your undergraduate degree
history history and then at Harvard you
studied law okay so now you came from a
workingclass background and you know I
grew up in a small town in Northern
Alberta and in a in a working class
background um and when I was young 14 15
I got attracted to more left ideas I
would say especially because of people
i' met met I suppose who were deeply
involved in the labor movement and at
that time in Canada particularly in my
home Province most of the people who
were on the political left were actually
involved in the labor movement and
actually genuinely involved I mean There
Was You know the fair share of
narcissists on the left then as there is
now but a lot of the people especially
in leadership positions had gone through
the workingclass ranks and had been
labor leaders and so what the reason I'm
asking you this is because you grew up
in a workingclass environment and you it
seems to me that you could have easily
tilted towards the more socialist left
as a consequence of being part of the
working class let's say and being
surrounded by that uh or being embedded
in that environment but you said that
when you went to Yale you tilted even
more strongly in in a conservative
Direction what was it about conservatism
in particular that attracted you and and
and also enabled you to develop and
defend your beliefs while you were in
these ivy league fundamentally liberal
leftist
institutions well part of it was just a
rebellion against the the real militant
leftism that I experienced on campus and
I had never experienced that before I
mean for example growing up I didn't
know who was a Republican or a Democrat
uh it didn't really matter I mean people
believed in our country they were patrio
IC uh they were God-fearing and so you
kind of had like a core set of values
that were in common that were different
from partisan allegiances so then I get
to get to Yale and the one of the Yale's
Motts is for God for country and for
Yale well I get up there and um uh they
were not very uh hospitable to God or
any type of religious Faith even though
it was founded in 1701 because Harvard
was too liberal with its theology that's
how was founded they had totally walked
away from any uh of that and then for
Country they would mostly bash the
United States you know you'd hear people
blaming America for this or that there
was a a view of of of Communism and
Marxism that was very favorable and I'm
just thinking to myself uh you know
there was a 100 million person body
count because of Marxism leninism in the
20th century and yet that's something
that they're just papering over so I
just found the whole thing to be very
unappetizing and then I was somebody
coming in I was patriotic I was
God-fearing and I may not have
necessarily had a firm political
philosophy but that definitely pushed me
uh away from that I'm like you know what
I don't know what I am but I'm
definitely not definitely not that for
sure and then I think just when you're
when you're studying ideas that that
really matter I mean some of some of
these ideas that Mark the founding of
the United States are really infectious
ideas about about Liberty about the
proper role of government written
constitutions and those are things okay
that's my Foundation that's what I think
matters and then how do you apply that
more uh in terms of contemporary and I'm
like well look this is the this is the
philosophical tradition that we're
supposed to want to conserve in terms of
being being conservatives that that the
founding fathers on the big things got
right uh we supposed to want to want to
preserve that and preserve Freedom so by
the time I graduated uh there was no
chance that I was ever going to end up
on the political left but it's
interesting when I look back at at at
Yale uh I was playing baseball I had a
lot of friends playing sports I was also
working a lot of part-time jobs anything
I could do just to help make ends meet I
was by the time I graduated I was
considered the most employable kid at
Yale because anytime someone needed
anything you know if I can make six or
seven bucks here or there I would do it
and I could get people to come and it
just it turns out that by by most of
what what is animated there the people
that were in kind of my socioeconomic
sphere tended to be much more patriotic
uh tended to be and I don't know if I
viewed it this way at the time but
tended to probably be more conservative
whereas a lot of the anti-americanism
and the militant leftism tended to be
driven by a lot of the trust fund kids
uh kids that had grown up and in a lot
of inherited wealth and I don't know if
this is their way to just Rebel but
there was definitely a a very wealthy
tilt toward Ward the people that were on
on the far left and uh maybe that was my
first introduction to to kind of
leftwing Elites uh that that are
advocating these things now they didn't
always want to live by what they were
advocating but they did strongly
advocate for those leftwing
positions finally the perfect gift for
somebody who has everything a gift that
will reach eternity what could be better
pre-born gives this gift 200 times every
day as they rescue babies whose lives
are in Peril these babies lives are
precious and beautiful their heart
begins to form at conception and at just
3 weeks is already beating at 5 weeks a
baby's heartbeat can be heard on
ultrasound by 6 weeks eyes are forming
by 10 weeks a baby can suck his or her
thumb pre-born needs are helped to save
these precious souls for just $28 you
can sponsor an ultrasound and introduce
a mother to her baby which doubles that
baby's chance at life and right now
through a matching Grant your gift saves
twice as many babies please give the
gift of life
have your donation matched today by
dialing pound 250 and saying the keyword
baby that's pound 250 keyword baby or
donate securely at pre-born
docomo that's preborn
docomo yeah well one of the things that
I noticed about the more activist types
at because I taught at Harvard for a
while at the ivy league institutions was
that there was a sense of wanting to
have too much like it was just too much
for me to see when I went to Boston that
you had young people who were
simultaneously in a position to place
themselves among the eventually Elite of
the country which is what's really
laying at your feet once you're in an
institution like Harvard or Yale and who
also wanted to acrew all the moral
benefit of being allied with the
oppressed you know I thought she got you
know you're really asking for a bit too
much here because on the one hand you're
already clearly part of what's going to
be the ruling Elite and that's
especially true if you also come from a
wealthy background and you want all the
moral virtue that URS to someone who's
simultaneously oppressed or an so-called
Ally of the oppressed and the hypocrisy
in that I found extraordinarily grating
and and mean that's continued to this
day and so what do you think that the
founding principle of the United States
have to offer to workingclass people as
an alternative to the
utopian Vision put forward by the
radical leftists I mean hypothetically
communism and these terrible systems
that emerged in the 20th century were
aimed at the working class right workers
of the World Unite you have nothing to
lose but your chains well it turns out
the chains you're going to be put in by
the radical leftists are a lot thicker
than the ones you abandoned but we could
leave that aside for the moment why do
you think that you found the principles
on which the US was founded more
attractive and particularly what makes
them more attractive and useful to
people who are genuinely of a
workingclass
derivation well look there there's a
there's a a limited role for government
to play and there's a limited role for
for ruling these ruling Elites and I
think when you look at things like
communism you're right the the chains
are even thicker for the working class
but man the the entrenched Elite Class
they do very very well uh and and they
live very high on the hog and you saw
that I think when we understand what
role government has played in holding
people back a more limited government
provides more opportunity I mean some of
that is just what's the proper scope and
power of the federal government for
example now you have a movement through
the bureaucracy not even legislated by
Congress to Force everyone to buy an
electric vehicle well if you're somebody
that that is a that is a truck driver or
a plumber making a pretty good living do
you really want that type of vehicle how
much more is that going to cost you all
these other things that seems to not be
much of an issue for the people driving
these policies they have their agenda
and they basically want people to be
thankful that uh that that they're able
to participate with that agenda even
though it's making them worse off that's
part of why you see the White House
press secretary every day Gaslight the
public saying how good things are with
the economy when people are falling
further and further behind they want
people to act like uh that they should
be thankful for what's going on even
though we know it's not so part of it is
uh making sure power is exercised in
accordance with the Constitution which
it is not right now you have a
bureaucracy that is untethered to the
original understanding of the
Constitution a lot of the most important
things that affect people's lives are
done not by members of Congress who you
can hire and fire during election season
but by unelected bureaucrats so I think
that's a problem the second thing is is
just there's a limit to what central
planning can do we saw the the Great
Society and the war on poverty in the
1960s where they said look if we just
have these these smart people in these
government bureaus we put money into it
they're going to be able to eliminate
poverty in this country and this will
just be a great uh great social Triumph
well what ended up happening was they
ended up creating a culture of
dependency they made it more difficult
for people to rise out of those
circumstances uh and they uh facilitated
dysfunction that we're we're still
living with uh this very very day so I I
I think it's just a skepticism of
government being able to to do all these
things to change and mold Society in the
way they do and also a skepticism about
government power being EX ized in big
Ways by unelected
bureaucrats I was talking to a European
friend of mine yesterday and she pointed
out that now in Europe essentially 55%
of what people earn goes to Taxation and
I thought well that's very interesting
because really what it means is that
people have given up
55% of the opportunity that presents
itself to them in life to the to the
what would you say to the
machinations of the people who are
taking their money and now it's more
than half of what they make now on the
one hand you might say well that's a
good deal because look at all the things
that the state does for you but on the
other hand you might say well every
single thing the state hypothetically
does for you is um p is power
responsibility and opportunity that has
been taken away from you that you can no
longer exercise yourself locally so that
takes a fair bit of the meaning out of
your life right I mean if it's on you to
do things properly then that gives you
something genuine and worthwhile to do
and if that's handed down to you from
the top down then you're in an infantile
and dependent condition you talked about
a culture of dependency and that
actually Hollows you out so as the state
becomes more tyrannical people become
more slavish and that's very hard on the
me existentially too because it deprives
them of of meaning and so so I'm very
curious though you know if you look at
the situation historically this is how
it appears to me people who promote
limited government in
principle and who want to devolve
responsibility back to local citizenry
in keeping with their abilities go to
Washington but the bloody government
keeps growing hand over fist regardless
and it doesn't really if you look at the
historical data it doesn't really seem
to matter that much whether it's the
Republicans or the Democrats in control
the state just grows and grows and grows
and grows at 3 to 5% a year and no one
seems to be able to trim it back and so
have you had any success in doing so at
the local level in Florida and what have
you learned apart from the fact that you
have to take flak if you're going to
attempt it what have you learned about
how the procla city of gigantic
organizations to keep growing can be
managed well we've eliminated two
agencies since I've been governor and
our uh cost per state employee is the
lowest in the country per capita and we
have either the lowest or close to the
lowest number of state employees per
capita anywhere in the United States and
it's interesting because when the people
flee New York to come to Florida one of
the first New York's budget by the way
we have millions of more people than New
York state does now New York's budget is
twice the size of Florida's budget and
yet the people that move from New York
to Florida will tell me how much better
the the services are in Florida easier
to get a driver's license better roads
all these other things so it is just a
fact that a lot of the government is
just not necessary to actually perform
the core functions so and in Florida
we've actually even though we've cut
taxes we've run surpluses we've paid
down almost 25% of our state's debt now
we're proud of that uh but I understand
the power is much more intrenched in
Washington DC I think it is the case and
I think you're right that it's grown
regardless but if you think about it
we've probably had one
Administration since the Great Society
who actually wanted to reduce government
Ronald Reagan and uh you know he had he
had some success in restraining domestic
but it was tough but I don't think we've
really had very many administrations
that have wanted to curb uh the size and
part of it is because when you're at the
helm of it you know you can wield some
of that power and I think that that's
attractive to people but I would be one
that would that would say we have uh
both too big a government in size and
maybe even more
importantly uh too much government in
scope so even if you cut the government
by 50% of the employees if the
government would still be U getting
involved in things through the
regulatory state that are far beyond the
current scope that would still be a
problem so I think you've got to tackle
both what you need to do is when you get
in there day one you have to have all
the Personnel ready to go for
ratification uh confirmation in the
Senate that's hundreds and hundreds of
people on day one need to be ready to go
two all the executive actions you're
going to take executive orders reversing
the uh the previous that's got to be
ready and then the legislative Road
map's got to be ready with the key
members of Congress and day one you just
got to go now you have a lot of Leverage
that you can use under article two of
the Constitution Visa the bureaucracy uh
there'll be a lot of things that we're
going to do we we've previewed some of
it we may do a larger roll out here in
the next few weeks uh but suffice it to
say there's a lot of authority and
leverage that presidents have not used
in the past that we would use uh both to
limit the scope and to downsize the
government so let me ask you some
specific questions and then I'll close
with some general questions you said
that you reduced two departments
eliminated two departments in Florida
and I was curious earlier when we were
talking about managerial strategies how
you go about trimming and firing I mean
these people that whose whose livelihood
you're planning to eradicate have
devoted their lives to their service to
their country that's one way of thinking
about it and it's a very difficult thing
to handle decreasing the size of an
organization so how how do you justify
that morally let's say and how do you go
about it practically so that it's
actually implementable and works I mean
obviously you haven't got enough
Kickback in Florida to have had the
government shut down by widespread
strikes for example or rebellions at the
administrative level so how have you
managed that and what makes you think it
could
scale well I think Florida we've just
been fortunate because it's it's
actually been been hard to to keep
people to want to be working in the
government because we have a good
economy 2.8% unemployment people have
opportunities a lot of times in some of
these agencies people are making a
sacrifice to be able to serve some of
them could be particularly at the higher
levels could probably make more money in
the private sector so we were very
confident that there would be
opportunities in the State of Florida
that really I don't think was as a was a
significant of a driving factor and then
you do have sometimes when you so for
example I've said federally get rid of
the Department of energy it's not not
been effective all that now there are
functions in that department that were
being done before the department was
established in the late 7s and would
still need to be done so some of those
like for example with nuclear used to be
under defense and so so sometimes when
you're reducing a bureaucracy or
eliminating a bureaucracy there may be
some functions for example the Commerce
Department uh We've said let's get rid
of that but you have to do the census
and there's certain things you have to
do so some of that will be will be to to
reassign others will just be be to
eliminate but but yes we in fact if you
think about some of the things that
we've had to do in Florida I've had
because our prisons it was hard to get
people to to serve as prison guards it's
not a great job the pay was too low they
could make more working at Walmart or
some of these other places so we
actually did a big concerted effort to
be able to give bonuses higher pay for
for Corrections Officers and we've been
able to to to do that uh pretty well but
we still have more ways to go just
because there's a lot of opportunities
uh in the economy right now in the State
of Florida because our state's
growing let me ask you this question are
you at peace with the Mindless screen
time you spend on your phone every day
are you gaining that higher quality of
life you know you desire if this sounds
familiar I have good news starting on
January 1st tens of thousands of men all
over the world will start 2024 with a
90-day journey together in search of a
more purposeful life it's called Exodus
90 and it was built to help men enjoy
the freedom of becoming who they were
truly made to be Exodus 90 guides you in
removing the attachments that are
holding you back from a better life and
it actually works independent research
shows that Exodus 90 men report
considerable shifts after the 90 days a
dramatic decrease in time spent on their
phon stronger satisfaction rates in
their marriages a more meaningful
relationship with God and true
brotherhoods of men on the same path for
the past 8 years Exodus 90 has helped
more than 100,000 men build their own
road map for living with virtue in a
culture that offers far too many paths
to self-destruction so is it time for
your Exodus we start January 1st find
resources to prepare for Exodus 90 at
Exodus 90.com Jordan that's Exodus
90.com Jordan to start your journey
let's talk about the Department of
Education now you I'm I'm obviously
extremely interested in educational
reform I mean I've been shocked for
example I was shocked as a professor at
the University of Toronto to find out
that my secondy year students who'd gone
through 14 years of public education
basically were entirely ignorant about
everything that happened in the Soviet
Union and in MA China throughout the
entire course of the 20th century and I
know that you've put in in um place um
mandates for example for that sort of
Education to be provided but you've also
been very interested in educational
reform so I'm curious about what's
motivating that and what you what what
uh what consequences that might have for
your actions on the federal level well
what we've done in Florida I mean we've
had to really fight Biden because they
want to use federal power uh to to
coerce us to do do things we don't want
to do for example we have women's sports
in Florida uh biological men are not are
not permitted to compete in that it's
not fair to the women athletes and they
were Biden threatened to withhold School
Lunch Money uh for poor kids just
because we were protecting women's
sports uh so they go after whatever they
can I'm going to get the federal
government off the back of the states uh
we'd like to just eliminate that
department entirely but at a minimum if
Congress won't do that I will certainly
uh be be able to just peel back all the
um it really it's not the proper role
the federal government to be getting
involved in in this stuff now what we've
done in Florida is say okay the State of
Florida clearly education is a very
important state interest uh we fund a
lot of the education uh we clearly have
the authority to provide protections for
the rights of parents so for example you
have a right to know what curriculum is
being used in your kids schools
unfortunately there are pornographic uh
materials that are getting put into
education now parents in Florida can
blow the whistle and that can be removed
uh We've also done Universal school
choice so that parents can choose make
the the best choice for they for their
kid regardless of their income that's
private that's Charter that's public uh
You Name It We Do It our our test scores
have gone up as a result of that because
I think students are in in good spots uh
We've also said no no to things like
critical race Theory and gender ideology
that is not the appropriate thing to be
doing in particularly Elementary School
and we focus on on the core academic
subjects uh We've also made a big push
to have more American Civics in the
classro and part of that is the
graduating students now take a test
that's modeled after the US citizenship
test that tests their civic knowledge
but what we we understood is like yeah I
can say they have to know the Federalist
Papers they have to know the Declaration
of Independence the Bill of Rights all
this stuff and that's great but you also
need teachers that really uh believe in
this and are passionate about it so we
created a program for teachers they get
a $3,000 bonus if they go through it's a
50-hour course and we got professors
from like Hillsdale College we got
people from the Heritage Foundation to
come to talk about the intellectual
roots of America what Went into the
American Revolution the Constitution so
they're learning about the enlightenment
judeo-christian tradition British common
law I mean everything you can think of
they're learning about and and it's been
really really good uh to be able to do
that I think we have a respon
responsibility to graduate students that
have a foundation in what it means to be
a citizen of a republic if you're just
graduating blank slates well that's how
you lose uh Freedom when when our
Founders created the Constitution
Benjamin Franklin walked out of the
convention in Philadelphia when it was
over he was asked did you give us a
republic or a monarchy and his response
was a republic if you can keep it
because they understood these things
don't run on autopilot the citizenry has
to be engaged in protecting from
preserving Freedom so that's kind of K12
now on higher education uh We've also
leaned in and our view is is that
publicly funded universities should meet
the mission that Florida wants for for
its taxpayers and for us we want
rigorous academic programs uh we want to
prepare students to be good citizens we
want the pursuit of Truth we don't want
the university to be hijacked to focus
on ideological indoctrination so we've
done things at like new College in
Sarasota where I appointed seven
conservatives to a small liberal arts
college they've now taken that more of a
direction like Hillsdale College in
Michigan and the the applications are
booming because there's a there there's
a hunger to have academics focused more
on on the meat and potatoes of what
academics used to be rather than than a
political agenda and then we're doing
the same thing like the University of
Florida we now have a Hamilton Center
for Public Policy where you're bringing
in professor that don't align with
leftist Orthodoxy who are be able to
present more of um I think a balanced
take on things give students access to
views that are not necessarily the the
politically correct approved views that
that that marks Academia so that's been
really exciting too but my view is is
these are all of our institutions
they're not the hobby horse of the
political left and they need to reflect
uh what the state's Mission and interest
are with respect to academics so I'm
going to ask you a couple of questions
to close if if you would the F the first
is what
challenges what have you done right and
wrong on the campaign Trail what
challenges do you have ahead of you on
the campaign Trail what are you hoping
for with regards to your campaign over
the next year and then more specifically
what are you hoping to accomplish with
your forthcoming debate with Gavin Nome
the governor of California
well I think it's actually they're
they're kind of related I mean I think
that you know in a presidential campaign
a lot of this is trying to generate
information flow to the voters and in a
nationwide thing things like the
corporate media unfortunately matter
more than maybe in a Statewide election
even a state as big as Florida uh I
really could dominate the discourse as
Governor I could go to the markets I
these local markets and do that when
you're talking about a presidential
campaign I mean it's just day after day
the media churn narratives and so we
knew from the day I won reelection in 22
I Was A Marked Man we knew they were
coming after me we knew they did not
want me to be the nominee that that
wasn't necessarily surprising uh but I
do think that uh doing what you can to
to get into that flow in ways that are
going to be present for voters is really
really important and I think we've done
a better job of that uh more recently in
the last few months than we did in the
first month or two of the the campaign
and that's kind of the thing with the
Newsome he said he wanted to debate me
Hannah he asked me to do it some people
said well Newsome we know he wants to
run but he's not actually running so so
why even give him that platform and and
my view is this is going to give me 90
minutes on National Television to be
able to articulate uh why conservative
policies have worked in Florida and why
they can work nationally in contrast to
the failure of California and how Biden
is failing and how more of that would
would lead to an acceleration of the
country's decline so that's going to
give me a good opportunity to be able to
reach uh these voters in ways that
that'll be meaningful so that's just
that's different in a presidential than
would be different in these other
campaigns um you just do uh so we're
going to be mindful of that now I do
think if you're out of a primary context
the liberal media attacking you I think
does help you with Republican voters
because they'll they'll get defensive
when you're the the nominee they'll say
wait a minute they're coming after our
guy uh and there is a rally around the
flag effect because conservatives just
have no trust in the corporate media at
this point that that you do have that in
the primary it's a little bit different
in terms of how how all that shakes out
but definitely uh I would say that just
the role that that that media plays and
being able to get in the information
flow is a really really thing and of
course there's some people that that
that can dominate that uh in ways that
other candidates can't so you said that
your your strategy has shifted to some
degree in the last few months and that
you think it's become more effective so
maybe you could elaborate on that a
little bit so what we've done really I
think um you know probably since the end
of the summer is is is get involved in
as many different media opportunities as
possible I didn't really do a lot of the
corporate media as Governor because I
didn't really need to and I knew they
were just trying to distort everything
uh we now do that I mean I've done uh
liberal shows I've gone on all that
stuff and and we're going to continue to
do that I think you just get better
churn when you're doing it what I've
also though noticed is uh we've spent a
lot of time in in these early States
particularly Iowa which is the first
contest Iowa caucus and when you're on
the ground there and we visited 98 of 99
counties I'll finish the 99th uh this
coming weekend uh you do get good
information flow with the local local
media and that's the thing it's like you
could be in an area you get a couple
hundred people to come see you and
that's important and when they come see
us we're able to shake their hand answer
their questions we went them over but
you know you're it's the whatever the
the media is then putting out to the
community that's really what's going to
be more influential so so we've gotten
in and we've done a lot of that uh and I
think that that's been effective and
we've been able to really build a big
big uh base of support in Iowa and when
you're in a caucus situation it's going
to be cold you got to show up at night
uh on a week night and you got to be
there for two or three hours and so that
takes a commitment it's not just mailing
in a ballot so so generating the type of
people that are really true believers
that you know are going to show up is
key and we've created a really good base
of support there well Governor I know
you're on a tight schedule and we have
to wrap this up there's endless numbers
of other questions I would like to ask
you I guess the last thing I would like
to know from you I suppose is um what
makes you think that you among the
Republican contenders are in the best
position to put to be put forward as the
as the Republican candidate for the next
presidential election few reasons one I
have a demonstrated record of of
fighting for people uh we've had a lot
of Republicans over the years that that
basically just cave at the first sign of
opposition to the media uh but I'm also
somebody that when I fight I I win these
battles and yes win the election we want
a historic victory in Florida we'd be
able to beat Biden nationally without
without question uh but winning on all
the policy fights it's one thing to have
a a a slogan about something but you
actually got to bring it in for a
landing so everything I talk about is
done with an eye to how would I actually
get it done whether it's stopping the
Border Invasion whether it's uh uh uh
reducing the bureaucracy and taming the
Deep State uh whether it's getting the
energy production at Max Capacity all
these things are things that we're
thinking about and the final thing is is
you we really need a leader and you need
leadership and that's what we've
demonstrated and Leadership is about
doing the right thing when it's not easy
uh when the wind's at your back that's
not really a test but when you have the
the wind in your face when people are
coming at you are you going to stand for
what's right articulate that Vision that
people can rally around uh or are you
going to kind of scurry off into your
little cubby and and hope that that you
don't that you don't get hit with any
incoming and and I have a demonstrated
record of leadership so people can know
know that with me as the candidate for
the Republicans uh when I get in there
January 20th 2025 uh we're going to get
all of this done and we're going to have
two terms to do it uh and the country is
going to be in a much better position
that winning the election is important
but then delivering on the promises that
is the missing ingredient that's what we
need to get done and that's what I
represent well thank you very much for
your time today sir it's much
appreciated it was pleasure to get to
know you a bit more um with any luck
we'll have another opportunity to talk
at some point during your campaign and
best of luck on the trail you they
should have you host one of the debates
I think it would be uh more informative
I think you you'd asked a lot of good
questions maybe we'll see if we could
get something done yeah well that would
be a remarkable opportunity and a
genuine privilege so I'd certainly be up
for that anyways thank you very much for
your time I know you're on a tight
schedule I'm going to let you go I want
to thank everybody who's watching and
listening this is a very important up
coming presidential election and it's
necessary to spend the time uh required
to to inform yourself about the about
the candidates and about the issues at
hand because it's a crucial election and
so thank you to the dailywire plus team
for making this possible and for to the
camera crew here in Scottdale and um
thanks once again Governor DeSantis for
your time today it's much appreciated
thank you take
care
[Music]